[Table of Contents](index.md)

* [Usage](1.usage.md)
* [Options](2.options.md)
* [Operation](3.operation.md)
* [Experimental Features](experimental-features.md)
  * [Screenshot (Export as Image)](plugin-screenshot.md)
* [Contribution *](4.contribution.md)
* [Development Guide](5.development.md)

Contribution code
===

jsMind still has a lot of room for improvement and optimization. You are welcome to contribute code to jsMind.

The most convenient way to contribute code is to submit a pull-request to the jsMind project, which can be done in the github help documentation.

* [Creating a pull request from a fork](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork)
* [Working with forks](https://help.github.com/en/articles/working-with-forks)

Before submitting a pull-request, be sure to test it well and make a detailed note when submitting the pull-request, including feature descriptions, code change notes.

Ask questions or contribute ideas
===

Or you can bring up a problem or need you've encountered via an issue for discussion, and hopefully a friend who has the ability and energy to join in and solve the problem together.

For common requirements, it is recommended to implement post-implementation feedback to the open source project, for non-common requirements, you can fork out a separate warehouse for custom development.

Customization
===

JsMind is an open source library with the BSD license, and can be used in commercial production. If there is a need for customization, please contact the author or other developers you trust.

copyright notice
===

Reproduction and deduction are prohibited.

The jsMind project is still being updated and the corresponding documentation is updated at the same time as the version is updated. In order to avoid confusion to the user, it is forbidden to reprint this document without written permission and to make changes of any kind to this document.